Update typography guidance and restructure styles section (#3343)
alphagov/govuk-design-system: src/styles/font-override-classes/index.md

---
title: Font override classes
description: Use paragraphs for your core content

> section: Styles

Author: All newly-separated pages need to link to the typography backlog page

```suggestion
section: Styles
backlogIssueId: 64
```

theme: Typography
layout: layout-pane.njk
showPageNav: true
order: 11
---

{% from "_example.njk" import example %}

> Use font override classes sparingly to etc. etc.

Author: This obvs needs writing up properly... is this enough?

```suggestion
Use font override classes sparingly to change the default styling of text on a page.
```

Reviewer: Is it too strong to say something like 'Only use font override classes to change the default styling of text on a page' ? Just thinking that 'sparingly' might be too vague.

Author: I think that probs wouldn't be quite accurate... Font override classes change the default styling – that's what they do, so the 'only' wouldn't make sense. I guess the 'sparingly' is getting at the idea that it's better to use the default styles first, and only override them if they're not working for your use case. The more we override stuff, the more inconsistency there is across GOV.UK.

Reviewer: Fair enough.

Author: Decision: this is fine 🤘

> You can use the font override classes in your HTML or reference the typography mixins in your own components.

Author: I don't think the typography mixins are actually mentioned on this page... should they be? 

cc. @owenatgov

Reviewer 2: My suggestion would be to link to [the API docs for our typography helpers](https://frontend.design-system.service.gov.uk/sass-api-reference/#helpers-typography) (the mixins). Which mixins are we referring to here though? I'm guessing `govuk-font` or `govuk-font-size` since we're talking about overriding sizes.

Author: I reckon it is those two yeah. That sounds a good solution.

Author: Do this !

## Text alignment

If you need to align text differently to how it usually displays on the page, you can use text alignment override classes.

Use:

- `govuk-!-text-align-left` to align text to the left
- `govuk-!-text-align-right` to align text to the right
- `govuk-!-text-align-centre` to align text to the centre

> You should usually left-align body copy that's read left to right. Right-aligned body copy can be hard for users to find and read when they magnify their screen.

Reviewer 2: Is there an acknowledgement we should make somewhere here about localisation and right-to-left scripts?

> Do not 'justify' blocks of body copy so that they're aligned to both the left and right margins. Doing this creates wider spaces between words, which can make the text hard to read.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do not 'justify' blocks of body copy text so it's aligned to both the left and right margins. Doing this creates wider spaces between words, which can make the text hard to read.
```

## Font size

> The full GOV.UK typography scale goes from 14px up to 80px on large screens. You can add these font size override classes to any other typographic class or element and they will change the font size.

Author: ```suggestion
The full GOV.UK typography scale goes from 16px up to 80px on large screens. You can add these font size override classes to any other typographic class or element and they will change the font size.
```

> {{ example({ group: "styles", item: "font-override-classes", example: "font-size", html: true, open: true, size: "xl" }) }}

Reviewer 2: Get that font-size-14 example OUTTA HERE

Author: Get rid of the 14px example!

## Font weight

As with the font size, you can add a font weight override class to any other typographic class or element to change the font weight to regular or bold weight.

{{ example({ group: "styles", item: "font-override-classes", example: "font-weight", html: true, open: true }) }}

### Bold text

> You can use bold to emphasise particular words in a transaction. Use it to highlight critical information that users need to refer to or you’ve seen them miss.

Reviewer: This is a bit of a cheeky suggestion. I've taken some text from the style guide as a sort of intro to the section.

```suggestion
Use bold text sparingly - using too much will make it difficult for users to know which parts of your content needs their attention the most.

You can use bold to highlight critical information and emphasise particular words in a transaction.
```
